So this is the first way of getting a reference on the Class object.
Just call the getClass method on any instance you have,
and you will get a reference on this Class object.
The second way is always very classical, very well known.
If you know the type you want to get a reference on,
you just call that type .class,
and it will give you a reference on the corresponding Class object.
So if you type String.class,
you will get a reference on the Class object that
is a model for the stringClass.
Now there is also a third way of getting a reference on a
Class object that is going to work even if you do not know the
name of the class at compile time,
which is great and gives many opportunities for Reflection.
Suppose we get the name of a class in a string,
and here, on this example, we are using java.lang .String,
but it could be any name read from a file,
from a disk, from a database, from whatever.
From this String, className, we can call Class.forName,
the static factory method from the class Class; pass the
name of a class as a parameter; and it returns a reference
on the corresponding Class object.
This is very powerful, and this is, in fact,
the entry point of many applications based on the Reflection API.
Now you need to be extra careful when running this code because
the forName method throws several exceptions.
Namely,
it can throw security-related exceptions in case you do
not have the rights to read that Class object to get a
reference on that Class object,
and it can also throw exceptions related to the fact that the
name of the class you are passing is wrong and this class is
not known by your application.
So this code is a little more fragile than the others in the way that it can
fail when you're calling Object.getClass or String.class,
it will never fail.
But it is also much more powerful because you can get a name
of a class at runtime and try to load it,
try to get a reference on it, and this is what we are going to use through the rest of this course.